“There is a lot of digital information in the world – about three zettabytes’ worth (that’s 3000 billion billion bytes) –
 and the constant influx of new digital content poses a real challenge for archivists.”

It is very expensive and inefficient to store data on hard disks, they need a 
constant supply of electricity and over time the machinery degrades and ultimately fails. 
While the best archiving material currently available, that doesn’t rely on a power supply, degrades in only a decade or so.

“This is a growing problem in the life sciences, where massive volumes of data – 
including DNA sequences – make up the fabric of the scientific record.”
“We already know that DNA is a robust way to store information because we can 
extract it from bones of woolly mammoths, which date back tens of thousands of years, 
and make sense of it,” says Nick Goldman of EMBL-EBI. “It’s also incredibly small, 
dense and does not need any power for storage, so shipping and keeping it is easy.”
Decoding and ‘reading’ the DNA is actually pretty simple, but the process of encoding and 
‘writing’ data has been until now something of a problem.
“There are two challenges: first, using current methods it is only 
possible to manufacture DNA in short strings. Secondly, both writing 
and reading DNA are prone to errors, particularly when the same DNA letter is repeated.”
So the researchers, Nick Goldman and co-author Ewan Birney, set out to 
address these problems.
“We knew we needed to make a code using only short strings of DNA, and 
to do it in such a way that creating a run of the same letter would be 
impossible. So we figured, let’s break up the code into lots of overlapping
fragments going in both directions, with indexing information showing 
where each fragment belongs in the overall code, and make a coding scheme
 that doesn’t allow repeats. That way, you would have to have the same 
error on four different fragments for it to fail – and that would be very rare,” says Ewan Birney.
“The new method requires synthesising DNA from the encoded information: 
enter Agilent Technologies, Inc, a California-based company that volunteered 
its services. Ewan Birney and Nick Goldman sent them encoded versions of: an 
.mp3 of Martin Luther King’s speech, ‘I Have a Dream’; a .jpg photo of EMBL-EBI;
 a .pdf of Watson and Crick’s seminal paper, ‘Molecular structure of nucleic acids’; 
a .txt file of all of Shakespeare’s sonnets; and a file that describes the encoding.”
